.TH Manlike_Formatting
.SH PURPOSE
The purpose of this document is to explain how macros similar to the
groff macros used to format man pages can be used to format pages for
clireader.

.P
.B Note:
Clireader is not a full implementation of groff. It doesn't even fully
implement all the macros available for formatting manpages. It's just a
quick way to do some formatting that's available to manpages, like have
bold text and hyperlink, without having to type terminal escape
sequences into your text file.

.SH
AVAILABLE MACROS
The following macros are available for use in manlike documents.

.SS
Document Structure Macros
These macros structure the document.
.RS 4
.TP
\.TH title [section] [footer-middle] [footer-inside] [footer-outside]
Define the title of the document. The
.I title
parameter sets the title of the document. The
.I section
optional parameter sets the section of the manual volume, which is only
useful if you are actually making manpages. The
.I footer-*
parameters set the text at the bottom of the document:
.I middle
centers the text,
.I inside
left-aligns it, and
.I outside
right-aligns it.

.IP
Each manlike page should start with a .TH macro, but it's not strictly
required.

.TP
\.SH [heading-text]
Set the given
.I heading-text
as a section header. Section headers reset all margin and indent changes.
They are set bold and are flush with the left margin. If a
.I heading-text
parameter is not passed, the next line following the macro will be set
as the
.I heading-text.
Any following lines or text macros become the first paragraph of the
section.

.TP
\.SS [subheading-text]
Set the given
.I subheading-text
as a subsection header. Section headers reset all margin and indent changes.
They are set bold and are two spaces indented from the left margin. If a
.I subheading-text
parameter is not passed, the next line following the macro will be set
as the
.I subheading-text.
Any following lines or text macros become the first paragraph of the
subsection.

.TP
\.EX
.TQ
\.EE
Begin and end an example. The text following this macro will be set
against the left margin as given. Any leading space and hard new lines
will be retained.

.TP
\.RS [indent]
Move the left margin
.I indent
number of characters to the right.

.TP
\.RE [indent]
Move the left margin
.I indent
number of characters to the left. This works differently than the
equivalent man macro does because clireader doesn't keep track of
indent levels.

.SS
Paragraph Macros
These macros set blocks of text as paragraphs.

.RS 4
.TP
\.P
.TQ
\.LP
.TQ
\.PP
Begin a new paragraph. The following text and text macros will be
reflowed as a single paragraph. Any previous paragraph indentation will
be reset to four characters. The paragraph will then be set indented
four characters to the right of the left margin.

.TP
\.TP [indent]
Set a paragraph with a leading tag, and the remainder of the text
indented. The next line following the macro will become the
.I tag
which will be set flush to the left margin. If the length of the tag
is less than the length of the
.I indent,
then the tag will be placed on the same line as the first line of
the paragraph. Otherwise the paragraph will start a line down from
the tag.

.IP
If
.I indent
is passed, then the paragraph after the tag will be indented that
number of characters. If no indent is passed but there is a previous
tagged paragraph that set the indent, the paragraph will be indented
by the amount set by the previous tagged paragraph. Otherwise, the
paragraph will be indented four characters.

.TP
\.TQ
Use after the header is set for a tagged paragraph to add an additional
tag to the paragraph.

.TP
\.IP [tag] [indent]
Set an indented paragraph. If a
.I tag
is given, the paragraph is tagged, similar to a tagged paragraph. The
.I indent
parameter sets how far the paragraph is indented from the left margin.
If no indent parameter is passed but a previous tagged or indented
paragraph set an indent amount, the paragraph will be indented by the
amount set by the previous paragraph. Otherwise, the indent defaults
to four.

.SS
Command Synopsis Macros
These macros simplify creating command synopses for man pages.

.RS 4
.TP
\.SY command
Begin the synopsis of a command. The
.I command
parameter sets the name of the command.

.TP
\.OP option-name [option-argument]
Define an option for the command. The
.I option-name
parameter provides the string that invokes the option. If the option
can take an argument, pass it as
.I option-argument.

.TP
\.YS
End the synopsis.

.SS
Hyperlink and Email Macros
Macros that handle active links in the terminal.

.RS 4
.TP
\.MT address
Set an email address. The parameter
.I address
is the email address. The following lines are the text shown to the user
as the link.

.TP
\.ME [punctuation]
End the setting of an email address. The
.I punctuation
parameter sets the punctuation mark to follow the link.

.TP
\.UR URL
Set a URL link. The parameter
.I URL
is the URL for the link. The following lines are the text shown to the
user as the link.

.TP
\.UE [punctuation]
End the setting of the link. The
.I punctuation
parameter sets the punctuation mark to follow the link.

.SS
Font Style Macros
Macros handle the font styling.

.RS 4
.TP
\.B [text]
Set the text given as
.I text
as bold. If the text parameter is not given, set the text of the next
line as bold.

.TP
\.I [text]
Set the text given as
.I text
with an underline. If the text parameter is not given, set the text of
the next line with an underline. 

.TP
\.SM [text]
Sets the text given as
.I text,
but doesn't make any changes to it. In man pages this should make the
text smaller, but that doesn't work on most terminals.

.TP
\.SB [text]
Set the text given as
.I text
as bold. If the text parameter is not given, set the text of the next
line as bold. In man pages this should also make the text smaller, but
that doesn't work on most terminals.

.TP
\.BI bold-text italic-text ...
Set each argument in bold then underline alternately.

.TP
\.BR bold-text roman-text ...
Set each argument in bold then roman alternately.

.TP
\.IB italic-text bold-text ...
Set each argument in underline then bold alternately.

.TP
\.IR italic-text roman-text ...
Set each argument in underline then roman alternately.

.TP
\.RB roman-text bold-text ...
Set each argument in roman then bold alternately.

.TP
\.RI roman-text italic-text ...
Set each argument in roman then underline alternately.
